
# Monte Carlo Simulations

The [mc.jl](https://github.com/m3g/FundamentosDMC.jl/blob/master/src/mc.jl) function implements the Monte Carlo method.

Monte Carlo simulations have a completely different principle
from dynamics simulations, but they are expected to sample the same
set of configurations if the thermodynamic conditions are the
same. Here we will perform a Monte Carlo simulation and verify
how similar it is to molecular dynamics simulations.

Unlike MD, MC has no time. There is a generation of consecutive random
positions, which are accepted or rejected according to the Metropolis
criterion:

If $V(\vec{x}_j) \leqslant V(\vec{x}_i)$, then $P(i\to j) = 1$

If $V(\vec{x}_j) > V(\vec{x}_i)$, then $P(i\to j) = e^{-(V_j-V_i)/kT}$

The second criterion is numerically satisfied by comparing the
result of $e^{-(V_j-V_i)/kT}$ with a random number drawn
between 0 and 1. In our examples, $kT=0.6$.

This procedure generates a sequence of configurations, which in
practice are correlated because new configurations are
generally generated by perturbations of the previous configurations. The perturbations must be chosen to minimize
correlation, while keeping the acceptance rate reasonable.
Acceptance rates of around 20 to 30\% are considered ideal.

## 7.1. Running

Run the `mc` function. We will vary the magnitude of the perturbations. The positional perturbations are Gaussian, and the
input magnitude is the standard deviation. The number of steps corresponds to the number
of new structures, not necessarily accepted, that are generated:

```julia-repl
julia> out = mc(sys,Options(alpha=0.05,nsteps=50_000));
```

For 50,000 steps, try different perturbations,
until an acceptance rate of around 30\% is obtained. (Something close to $0.08\textrm{\AA}$).

Once the perturbation is chosen, run the program with
200,000 steps, which means approximately 60,000 steps will be
accepted (for a 30\% acceptance rate).

Observe the evolution of the potential energy by making plots with:

```julia-repl
plot(out,ylim=[-100,100], label="Potential", xlabel="step")
```

In this case it does not make sense to show the kinetic energy, which is not defined since the particles do not have actual velocities. Save the plot to a `pdf` file for later comparison, using:
```julia-repl
julia> savefig("./mc.pdf")
```

Observe the trajectory (with the same commands as before).

## 7.2. Complete summary code

```julia
using FundamentosDMC, Plots
sys = System(n=100,sides=[100,100])
minimize!(sys)
out = mc(sys,Options(alpha=0.05,nsteps=50_000))
plot(out,ylim=[-100,100], label="Potential", xlabel="step")
```
